Please answer the below core-java Questions:
What is programing language?
Answer: A programming language is a formal constructied language designed to communicate
instruction s to a machine , particularly a computer. Programming language can be used to
create a program to control the behavior of a machine.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Answer: JDK contains the Java Virtual Machine(JVM), classes comprising the Java platform
API, and supporting files unlike the JDK.
What is IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Answer: Eclipse, Intellij, Netbeans etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we
type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into
machine code.There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
what is class?
Answer: A class is a blueprint  for an object.
What is object?
Answer: An object is an instance of class.
What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: Main  method.
Why main is static?
Answer: Static methods don't require instance of the class to be invoked, JVM can directly
cll it. Static keyword is used to show the common property in entire program. Main method
is static in java because without main it is impossible to execute java program.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Object class is the super class of all classes.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: CLASSPATH is the path for Java application where the classes you compiled
will be available. The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that PATH is
an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like java or javac
 command used to run java program and compile java source file.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot
have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements
a default behavior. Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final.
An abstract class may contain non-final variables.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Answer: No , In interface we are only allowed to declare method. We implement interface
and Extends abstract with full fletch  class.
what is Access Specifier?
Answer: Access specifier are public , private , protected.
public is a access specifier which is accessabel for anyone.
private access specefier accessable within the class.
protected access specifier accessable within the package.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Answer: OOP stands for object oriented programming. Encapusulation , class data,polymorphism
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: Java package conside as a folder, default package are imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Answer: Application Program Interface. An applicatoin program interface is a set of
routines ,protocols, and tools for building software.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Answer: Java does not support multiple inheritance at a time.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Answer: When two matods are same but signature of those methods are different then
method overloading happen.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Answer:An exception object is an instance of an exception class. It gets created
and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred that disrupted
the normal flow of the application
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Answer: The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class. The
static can be variable, method, block, nested class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Answer: Final is  a keyword ,after initializing if we use keyword final before
variable no one can change it , in the method it is same  no one can change the method.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Answer: Final-final keyword in java first of all, final is
a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
Finally: Java finally block is a block that is used to execute
important code such as closing connection, stream etc.
Finalize: The java.lang.Object.finalize() is called by the garbage collector
on an object when garbage collection determines that there are
no more references to the object
What is a constructor ?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's
called when an instance of an object is created.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: Yes.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: Default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Answer: Reserve keyword in java.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Answer: Super keyword has access method of parents class and it can be used from a sub class
What is JVM stand for ?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine.
Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: Yes.
What version of java are you using?
Answer: 8.1
What is JAR stand for ?
Answer: Java Archive.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: The Java Development Kit is a software development environment
used for developing java applications
Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run
Java programs as well as programs written in other languages that
are also compiled to Java bytecode
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs as well as programs
written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode
The Java Runtime Environment  is a set of software tools for development of Java applications.
What is compile time and run time?
Answer: Codes are written in compile time and after compiling is run time.
What is heap?
Answer: Heap is a part of a memory where dynamically allocated memory resides.
How java manage it's memory?
Answer: Java memory is allocated only to objects. There is not explicit allocation of memory.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: String is a sequence of a character.
        The StringBuffer class is used to represent characters that can be modified.
        StringBuilder objects are like String objects, except that they can be modified.
What is Singleton class?
Answer: A singleton class is a class that can have only one object  at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a
        byte stream
        The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.
when to use transient variable in java?
Answer:Java transient variables to indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a
persistent byte stream for any instance of that class.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
Answer: While check condition before execute but do while execute once and check condition.
What is Enum?
Answer: Predefined string data.
What is Iterator?
Answer:Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Answer: Same amount memory take int and Integer.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Answer:The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another
constructor with respect to current object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Answer: JIT compiler is a program that turns Java bytecode  into instructions that can be sent directly to the processor.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Answer:Java applications are only allowed to use a limited amount of memory.
This limit is specified during application startup. To make things more complex,
Java memory is separated into two different regions.These regions are called Heap space
and Permgen
on the other hand
Java garbage collector finds unused objects and deletes them to free up memory.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
 Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
what is multithreading in java?
Answer:Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process,
the smallest unit of processing.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access
to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java
What is Framework?
Answer:frameworks are web-based software libraries that provide the user
interface, or view-layer.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Answer:JTest,The Grinder ,TestNG ,JUnit ,JWalk ,Mockito ,Powermock.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Answer: The process of parameterized test configuratoin in TestNG is a easier than
JUnit . Junit does not support group test while TestNG, the specialists are able to administrate
certain tests to large group of people tat are same.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Dependency injection in java is a way to achieve inversion of control in our application
by moving objects binding from compile time to rntime.
what is dependency injection in java?
Answer: A framework class, usually called the dependency container, could analyze the dependencies of this class. With this analysis it is able to create an instance
of the class and inject the objects into the defined dependencies, via Java reflection
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Answer: Static binding is method overloading and dynamic binding is method overriding.









